
Please consider the details for the dataset used in the neural network training provided in the context below
and provide an overall summary for the dataset used.


Context:
Page 0:
The paper used a dataset of 60K hours of English speech for training the neural network.

Page 1:
The dataset used to train the neural network in the paper is LibriLight, which consists of 60K hours of English speech with over 7000 unique speakers.

Page 2:
The paper does not explicitly mention the dataset used to train the neural network.

Page 3:
The paper does not mention the specific dataset used to train the neural network.

Page 4:
The dataset used to train the neural network in the paper is denoted as D={xi,yi}, where y is an audio sample and x={x0,x1,...,x L} is its corresponding phoneme transcription.

Page 5:
The paper does not provide information about the dataset used to train the neural network.

Page 6:
The paper does not provide information about the dataset used to train the neural network.

Page 7:
The dataset used to train the neural network in the experiment is LibriLight, which contains 60K hours of unlabelled speech from audiobooks in English.

Page 8:
The dataset used to train the neural network in the paper was LibriSpeech test-clean.

Page 9:
The dataset used to train the neural network in the machine learning paper is the VCTK dataset, consisting of 108 speakers, where none of the speakers are observed during training.

Page 10:
The dataset used to train the neural network in the paper is LibriSpeech.

Page 11:
The paper used a large-scale dataset consisting of more acoustic conditions than the data used by the baseline model.

Page 12:
The paper does not provide information about the dataset used to train the neural network.

Page 13:
The paper does not provide information about the dataset used to train the neural network.

Page 14:
The paper does not provide information about the dataset used to train the neural network.

Page 15:
The dataset used to train the neural network in the paper is not explicitly mentioned in the provided context.

